feat(docs): add standard URL docs page (#25673)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/url.mdx

---
title: URL
description: Standard URL API available on all Expo-supported platforms. 
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo'
packageName: 'expo'
---

import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

The standard URL API is available on all Expo-supported platforms.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

> This API is part of the `expo` package. On native platforms, the build-in support for `URL` and `URLSearchParams` replaces the shim in `react-native`. Refer to the [browser and server runtime support](https://caniuse.com/url) for web and Node.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API is part of the `expo` package. On native platforms, built-in `URL` and `URLSearchParams` implementations replace the shims in `react-native`. Refer to the [browser and server runtime support](https://caniuse.com/url) for web and Node.js.
```

## Usage

```js
const url = new URL('https://expo.dev');

const params = new URLSearchParams();
```

## Conformance

> Unicode characters are not supported on native platforms.

Reviewer: Add more clarification about what this means and in what context. Also all characters, practically speaking, are Unicode characters.

---
title: URL
description: Standard URL API available on all Expo-supported platforms. 
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo'
packageName: 'expo'
---

import PlatformsSection from '~/components/plugins/PlatformsSection';

The standard URL API is available on all Expo-supported platforms.

<PlatformsSection android emulator ios simulator web />

## Installation

This API is part of the `expo` package. On native platforms, built-in `URL` and `URLSearchParams` implementations replace the shims in `react-native`. Refer to the [browser and server runtime support](https://caniuse.com/url) for web and Node.js.

## Usage

```js
const url = new URL('https://expo.dev');

const params = new URLSearchParams();
```

## Conformance

Expo's build-in URL support attempts to be fully [spec compliant](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL). 

> The only missing exception is that native platforms do not currently support [unicode characters](https://unicode.org/reports/tr46/) in the hostname. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only missing exception is that native platforms do not currently support [non-ASCII characters](https://unicode.org/reports/tr46/) in the hostname. 
```
Again, all characters are Unicode characters, it's characters outside of the ASCII U+007F range that need to be converted to punycode
